Miguel Bernal Marin

+52 00 0000 0000
miguel.bernal.marin@gmail.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/miguelinux/
https://github.com/miguelinux/

OBJECTIVE

Senior Software Engineer

SUMMARY

• Highly skilled professional with a proven track record of over 15 years
  in Linux system administration and engineering, including programming
  (C/C++, Python, Java), toolchains (autotools, CMake), web development
  (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), automation and scripting (DevOps), project
  packaging (RPM, DEB), and IT troubleshooting.

• Knowledge of container management (Docker, Podman, LXC/LXD/Incus) and
  virtual machines (Qemu/KVM), and use of various commercial cloud
  providers (AWS, Google Cloud, Azure).

• Experience contributing using GIT to free and open source software
  projects, compiling and modifying the Linux kernel, using various Linux
  distributions, and automating software processes.

• Shared expertise across national and international audiences by teaching
  specialized courses and presentation, with a focus on mentoring and
  training technical staff and the general public.

• Skilled in managing software projects with the latest cloud technologies.

• Member of the Mexican National System of Researchers (SNII) with
  an established record, including 5 international conference publications,
  2 articles in specialized journals,  1 book chapter, and 3 US patents.
  Currently serves as a professor in both undergraduate and graduate
  programs at various universities.


EXPERIENCE

Intel, Zapopan, Mexico						2011 - 2025
Linux OS Engineering Area

OS Development Engineer, 2021 – 2025
Enabling the new Intel key features on Debian Linux kernel package and create
CentOS packages for testing.

• 18+ contribution to the Debian Linux kernel package.
• Enabling 3 internal validation tools to be able to run on Debian.
• Developed a Python application that accelerated deployment time by 50%
  by automatically configuring the system under test (SUT) .
• Wrote Bash scripts to automate container configuration for project
  development and testing.
• Build internal CentOS packages and automating them using GitHub Actions.

Software Engineer, 2014 – 2021
Leader of the Linux kernel package development and maintenance team from
the Clear Linux distribution.

• Fully automated (without human intervention) the update of six
  kernel packages for the Clear Linux distribution.
• Trained and developed my team's Linux knowledge.
• Maintained and enabled several packages for the Clear Linux distribution.
• Contribute to open source projects for include Clear Linux OS structure.

Graphics Software Engineer, 2011 – 2014
Developer and tester for Intel graphics cards using virtualization and
Microsoft WHQL.

• Automated graphics validation using Linux scripts, reducing workload by 70%.
• Intel graphics cards tester on Android platforms.
• Use the Microsoft DirectX 9 testing API and the WHQL to develop and testing.


EDUCATION

PhD. in Electric Engineering            2012
Study area: Robotics and computer vision.
Research stay: Fraunhofer IITB Institute, Karlsruhe, Germany, 2008
Research and Advanced Study Center from IPN (CINVESTAV)

M.Sc. in Electric Engineering           2007
Study area: Robotics and computer vision.
Research and Advanced Study Center from IPN (CINVESTAV)

Bachelor’s Degree in Mathematics        2002
Specialization: Math computing
Guadalajara’s University


LANGUAGES

Spanish: Native
English: Fluent
German: Basic


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

• Talks and presentations at various conferences/meetings as: Linux Cabal,
  KCD, CCOSS, FSL, PosaDev, GUGLAG, Pythonistas GDL, U de G, SSJ, Bsides
  Guadalajara.
• Open source contributions: Linux kernel, systemd, Debian Linux kernel
  package, ndctl, Intel QPL, various Clear Linux packages, including the
  Linux kernel package.
• Professional Associations: Member of the IEEE.
• US patents: 10,609,205 B2, 10,938,977 B2, 11,516,336 B2.

